Release notes for 8.13.0 (#15978)
elastic/logstash: docs/static/releasenotes.asciidoc

* <<logstash-8-0-0-alpha1,Logstash 8.0.0-alpha1>>

[[logstash-8-13-0]]
=== Logstash 8.13.0 Release Notes

* Package `elastic_integration` plugin. https://github.com/elastic/logstash/pull/15769[#15769]
* Flow metrics added `worker_utilization` to pipeline-level https://github.com/elastic/logstash/pull/15912[#15912]
* Unbundled `logstash-input-imap` plugin https://github.com/elastic/logstash/pull/15985[#15985]

[[notable-8.13.0]]
==== Notable issues fixed

* Ensure that the order of JVM options from both files and environment variables is respected https://github.com/elastic/logstash/pull/15997[15997]

==== Plugins

*Elastic_integration Filter - 0.1.6*

* Using this filter you can process Elastic Integrations in Logstash.
** Once configured to point to an Elasticsearch cluster, this filter will detect which Elastic Integration processing (if any) should be executed for each event by auto-detecting the event’s data-stream.

> ** It will then perform that processing inside Logstash without transmitting the event to Elasticsearch. Events that are successfully handled will be tagged so that any downstream Elasticsearch output in the Logstash pipeline will avoid running the Elastic Integration again in Elasticsearch.

Reviewer: The plugin section should reflect the changelog entry for the version bump, not a general description of the plugin. 

*Elastic_integration Filter - 0.1.6
https://github.com/elastic/logstash-filter-elastic_integration/pull/127/files

Reviewer: We need the info in release notes, but that's not the right way to handle it. 
I'll make some suggestions in the PR .

* <<logstash-8-0-0-alpha1,Logstash 8.0.0-alpha1>>

> [[logstash-8-13-0]]
> === Logstash 8.13.0 Release Notes
> 
> * Package `elastic_integration` plugin. https://github.com/elastic/logstash/pull/15769[#15769]
> * Flow metrics added `worker_utilization` to pipeline-level https://github.com/elastic/logstash/pull/15912[#15912]
> * Unbundled `logstash-input-imap` plugin https://github.com/elastic/logstash/pull/15985[#15985]
> 
> [[notable-8.13.0]]
> ==== Notable issues fixed
> 
> * Ensure that the order of JVM options from both files and environment variables is respected https://github.com/elastic/logstash/pull/15997[15997]
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[[logstash-8-13-0]]
=== Logstash 8.13.0 Release Notes

[[featured-8-13-0]]
==== New {ls} plugin: Elastic_integration filter

With the {ls} Elastic_integration filter, you can take advantage of the features in {integrations-docs}[Elastic integrations] without missing out on the advanced processing capabilities offered by {ls}. 
Together, Elastic integrations and {ls} can help you solve a wide range of use cases, including air gapped environments, data privacy processing, and multiple destinations. 

Your {ls} pipeline would include the elastic_agent input, the elastic_integration filter, and the elasticsearch output, in addition to any other plugins you want to use.

Check out <<ea-integrations>> and the <<plugins-filters-elastic_integration,`Elastics_integration filter`>>  plugin docs for details.

[[notable-8.13.0]]
==== Enhancements and notable issues fixed

* Flow metrics added `worker_utilization` to pipeline-level https://github.com/elastic/logstash/pull/15912[#15912]
* Ensure that the order of JVM options from both files and environment variables is respected https://github.com/elastic/logstash/pull/15997[#15997]

[[plugin-changes-8.13.0]]
==== Changes to bundled plugins

* Packaged `filter-elastic_integration` as a bundled plugin in preparation for GA. https://github.com/elastic/logstash/pull/15769[#15769]
* Unbundled `logstash-input-imap` plugin https://github.com/elastic/logstash/pull/15985[#15985]

```

Reviewer 2: This is so much better!

Together, Elastic integrations and {ls} can help you solve a wide range of use cases, including air gapped environments, data privacy processing, and multiple destinations. 

Your {ls} pipeline would include the elastic_agent input, the elastic_integration filter, and the elasticsearch output, in addition to any other plugins you want to use.

Check out <<ea-integrations>> and the <<plugins-filters-elastic_integration,`Elastics_integration filter`>>  plugin docs for details.

[[notable-8.13.0]]
==== Enhancements and notable issues fixed

* Flow metrics added `worker_utilization` to pipeline-level https://github.com/elastic/logstash/pull/15912[#15912]
* Ensure that the order of JVM options from both files and environment variables is respected https://github.com/elastic/logstash/pull/15997[#15997]

[[plugin-changes-8.13.0]]
==== Changes to bundled plugins

* Packaged `filter-elastic_integration` as a bundled plugin in preparation for GA. https://github.com/elastic/logstash/pull/15769[#15769]
* Unbundled `logstash-input-imap` plugin https://github.com/elastic/logstash/pull/15985[#15985]

> ==== Plugins

Reviewer: ```suggestion

==== Plugins
```

Check out <<ea-integrations>> and the <<plugins-filters-elastic_integration,`Elastics_integration filter`>>  plugin docs for details.

[[notable-8.13.0]]
==== Enhancements and notable issues fixed

* Flow metrics added `worker_utilization` to pipeline-level https://github.com/elastic/logstash/pull/15912[#15912]
* Ensure that the order of JVM options from both files and environment variables is respected https://github.com/elastic/logstash/pull/15997[#15997]

[[plugin-changes-8.13.0]]
==== Changes to bundled plugins

* Packaged `filter-elastic_integration` as a bundled plugin in preparation for GA. https://github.com/elastic/logstash/pull/15769[#15769]
* Unbundled `logstash-input-imap` plugin https://github.com/elastic/logstash/pull/15985[#15985]

==== Plugins

*Elastic_integration Filter - 0.1.6*

* Using this filter you can process Elastic Integrations in Logstash.
** Once configured to point to an Elasticsearch cluster, this filter will detect which Elastic Integration processing (if any) should be executed for each event by auto-detecting the event’s data-stream.

> ** It will then perform that processing inside Logstash without transmitting the event to Elasticsearch. Events that are successfully handled will be tagged so that any downstream Elasticsearch output in the Logstash pipeline will avoid running the Elastic Integration again in Elasticsearch.

Reviewer: Good info on how this works.  Rather than removing it, I made minor suggestions on messaging and formatting.  If you accept these suggestions, I'll do one final quick check to be sure that it's formatting as I expect it to.

> ** It will then perform that processing inside Logstash without transmitting the event to Elasticsearch. Events that are successfully handled will be tagged so that any downstream Elasticsearch output in the Logstash pipeline will avoid running the Elastic Integration again in Elasticsearch.

Reviewer 2: Do you think we can merge this with line 81 ?
* Packaged `filter-elastic_integration` as a bundled plugin in preparation for GA. https://github.com/elastic/logstash/pull/15769[#15769]

Both say a plugin is bundled and available for GA

> ** It will then perform that processing inside Logstash without transmitting the event to Elasticsearch. Events that are successfully handled will be tagged so that any downstream Elasticsearch output in the Logstash pipeline will avoid running the Elastic Integration again in Elasticsearch.

Reviewer: I was trying to reach both kinds of readers--the ones who focus on the core updates and the ones who focus on plugins.  I added the lead in to the integrations filter plugin section as an explanation for why we're talking about plugin capabilities in the plugin change log. 

If you don't think it belongs in the plugin section, I think it should come out.  
It's good info, and I can use it somewhere else outside of release notes.

* <<logstash-8-0-0-alpha1,Logstash 8.0.0-alpha1>>

[[logstash-8-13-0]]
=== Logstash 8.13.0 Release Notes

* Package `elastic_integration` plugin. https://github.com/elastic/logstash/pull/15769[#15769]
* Flow metrics added `worker_utilization` to pipeline-level https://github.com/elastic/logstash/pull/15912[#15912]

> 

Reviewer 3: `imap-input` plugin is not default now and the change backported to 8.13. Do we need to point it out here?

==== Plugins

> *Elastic_integration Filter - 0.1.6*

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
*Elastic Integration Filter - 0.1.6*
```

OR
```suggestion
*`elastic_integration` Filter - 0.1.6*
```

Reviewer 2: I think the name has to follow the convention with underscore like [Elastic_serverless_forwarder](https://github.com/elastic/logstash/pull/15265#discussion_r1312424994)

> * Using this filter you can process Elastic integrations powered by Elasticsearch Ingest Node in Logstash.

Reviewer 2: This is copied from the plugin description.
"Elastic integrations" is an overloaded term that I am not sure how reader will interpret it.

Reviewer 2: Maybe something like this.

This plugin executes ingest pipeline for each event in Logstash. Once configured to point to an Elasticsearch cluster, this filter will detect which ingest pipeline to execute, using an explicitly-defined `pipeline_name` or auto-detecting the event’s data-stream and its default pipeline.

Logstash loads ingest pipeline definition from Elasticsearch and runs that pipeline inside Logstash without transmitting the event to Elasticsearch. Any downstream Elasticsearch output in the Logstash pipeline will avoid running the event’s default pipeline again in Elasticsearch.

Reviewer 4: We want to _avoid_ mentions of "ingest pipeline", please. 

Ingest Pipeline is the _"how"_, not the "what" or the "why".

> * Using this filter you can process Elastic integrations powered by Elasticsearch Ingest Node in Logstash.
> ** Once configured to point to an Elasticsearch cluster, this filter will detect which ingest pipeline (if any) should be executed for each event, using an explicitly-defined `pipeline_name` or auto-detecting the event’s data-stream and its default pipeline.
> ** It will then load that pipeline’s definition from Elasticsearch and run that pipeline inside Logstash without transmitting the event to Elasticsearch. Events that are successfully handled by their ingest pipeline will have `[@metadata][target_ingest_pipeline]` set to `_none` so that any downstream Elasticsearch output in the Logstash pipeline will avoid running the event’s default pipeline again in Elasticsearch.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Using this filter you can process Elastic Integrations in Logstash.
** Once configured to point to an Elasticsearch cluster, this filter will detect which Elastic Integration processing (if any) should be executed for each event by auto-detecting the event’s data-stream.
** It will then perform that processing inside Logstash without transmitting the event to Elasticsearch. Events that are successfully handled will be tagged so that any downstream Elasticsearch output in the Logstash pipeline will avoid running the Elastic Integration again in Elasticsearch.
```

Notes:
 - zoomed up to high-level overview, skipping over details.
 - explicitly avoided mention of ingest pipelines, ingest node, etc.
 - explicitly avoided mention of `pipeline_name` setting, since this is a stop-gap feature for a specific subset of users that isn't useful in a general announcement.
